# SingleCell

1. https://www.khanacademy.org/science/ap-biology/gene-expression-and-regulation/biotechnology/v/dna-cloning-and-recombinant-dna
This link talks about DNA cloning in a simplified manner. Using restriction enzymes, the gene (to be cloned) is cut from the DNA and then inserted into a plasmid (which is a circular genetic material outside the DNA) with the help of DNA ligase. The plasmid (recombinant DNA: DNA assembled out of fragments from multiple sources) is then inserted into another bacteria, usually of E. Coli, by applying heat shock. Some E.Coli cells accept the plasmid wheareas others don't. The E. Coli bacteria are then allowed to multiply in a cell-culture dish by providing nutrients and favourable temperature. The E.Coli which didnt accept the plasmids are prevented from growing by: i) injecting antibiotic-resistance gene into the plasmid prior to heat shock. The plasmid contains antibiotic-resistance gene. ii) providing anti-biotics along with nutrients in the cell-culture dish. E. Coli which didn't accept the plasmid perish in the presence of antibiotics. Bacteria without a plasmid will die, while bacteria carrying a plasmid can live and reproduce. The E.Coli which accepted the plasmid grow and reproduce. The plasmids containing the gene-to-be-cloned get replicated along with them. 

Not all colonies will necessarily contain the right plasmid. That’s because, during a ligation, DNA fragments don’t always get “pasted” in exactly the way we intend. Instead, we must collect DNA from several colonies and see whether each one contain the right plasmid. Methods like restriction enzyme digestion and PCR are commonly used to check the plasmids.

2. 
